what functions or methods should be used to create a table showing 2 columns that correctly match the columns' values in Microsoft Excel. One column header is named 'a' with a list of 50 unique values. The other column header is named 'b' with a list of 120+ unique values.  There can be many unique column b values that are related to a single column a value and a single column a value can also be mapped to many unique column b values. The 2 columns with unique lists currently cannot only be mapped with a one-to-one relationship as many scenarios will have a value in column b be related to many unique values in column a. 

There is currently no structured table to reference to create a table or pivot table with these 2 columns. There currently only exist the unique lists of column 'a' and 'b' values. What functions can be used to create a table matching multiple 'a' values to a 'b' value and vice versa? The parent field would be column 'a'
ChatGPT

2 / 2

One way to create a table that matches multiple 'a' values to a 'b' value and vice versa is to use Excel's Power Query feature. Here's how you can do it:

Select the range of cells containing the 'a' and 'b' columns, including their headers.

Go to the 'Data' tab in the Excel ribbon and click on 'From Table/Range' under the 'Get & Transform Data' section. This will open the Power Query Editor.

In the Power Query Editor, select the 'a' column and go to the 'Transform' tab in the ribbon. Click on 'Group By' and configure the settings as follows:

New column name: "b_values"
Operation: "All Rows"
Advanced options > Ignore errors: checked
Click 'OK' to create a new column that contains a list of all the 'b' values associated with each 'a' value.

Next, select the 'b' column and go to the 'Transform' tab. Click on 'Merge Queries' and configure the settings as follows:
Merge query: "Table1" (or whatever the name of your original table is)
Join kind: "Left Outer"
By columns: "b" for both tables
Click 'OK' to create a new table that combines the 'a' and 'b_values' columns with the original 'b' column.

Finally, select the new table and go to the 'Transform' tab. Click on 'Unpivot Columns' and select 'a' and 'b_values' as the columns to unpivot. This will create a new column called 'Attribute' and a new column called 'Value' that contain the original 'a' and 'b' values, respectively.
Your final table should have 3 columns: 'b', 'Attribute', and 'Value'. Each row will contain a single 'b' value and one or more 'a' values or 'b_values' associated with it.

You can then use this table to create a pivot table or perform other types of analysis in Excel.
